## A Systematic Mixed Methodological Review of the Quantitative and Qualitative Methods Used in Mixed-Methods Published Research and IES Funded K – 12 Educational Statistical Analysis
### *The Society for Research on Educational Effectiveness* (SREE) In-The-Pipeline Research Methods Presentation
#### Authors Karen Alexander and Jay Jeffries 
<sub> ***University of Nebraska-Lincoln*** </sub>

### Overview
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The purpose of this repository is to be transparent in showing the statistical tests and results for our exploration of the research methods and designs used between the Institute of Educational Sciences (IES) and non-IES funded mixed methods educational research. The data used derived from qualitative coding of articles published by journals and proposals advertised by IES via their website between 2014-2019. To better understand the screening of the sample of articles used, check out the [PRISMA Chart](https://github.com/jjeffries13/MM-SR/blob/main/PRISMA%20Chart%20Appendix%20A.pdf) document. Coding of relevant articles focused on the methodology and study designs rather than specific outcomes. Using MaxQDA, articles and IES studies were analyzed by the two authors who independently coded half of the articles and the IES proposals. The [code list](https://github.com/jjeffries13/MM-SR/blob/main/CodeSystemPDF.pdf) utilized was divided into five components: research method, IES research purpose, quantitative method, qualitative method, and mixed methods integration type. The codes for the quantitative and qualitative methods were organized using [Onwuegbuzie (2016) a priori coding scheme](https://github.com/jjeffries13/MM-SR/blob/main/ComplexityContinuums_Onwuegbuzie_.pdf) which places method complexity along continuums. Using the RStudio environment (RStudio Team, 2021), [statistical analyses](https://github.com/jjeffries13/MM-SR/blob/main/MM-SR_Analysis.pdf) were conducted to identify differences betweeen IES and non-IES funded studies in terms of reporting of methods and code complexities across these continuums. 

### Abstract
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Educational research involving mixed methods (MM), or the integration of quantitative and qualitative methods, provides valuable contextual information that may be missing from traditional quantitative research within education. The Common Guidelines for Education Research and Development (Institute for Education Sciences; IES et al., 2013) does not contain any reference to the use of MM while MM is now encouraged by the IES, the U.S. Department of Education, and the National Science Foundation (IES et al., 2020). Most research funded by the IES tends to be quantitative. However, if either the quantitative or qualitative methods used within MM educational research lack rigor, then that research is not only less likely to receive funding by the IES, but also raises concerns regarding the quality of MM research within the field of education. While reviews have looked at the rigor of quantitative methods within MM research (e.g. Alise & Tedlie, 2010; Bash et al., 2020; Brown et al., 2015; Plano Clark et al., 2015), methodological rigor within particular fields of study within education (e.g. math education – Hart et al., 2009; Ross & Onwuegbuzie, 2014; school psychology – Powell et al., 2008), and federal funding of MM research within the health fields (Coyle et al., 2018; Guetterman et al., 2019; Plano Clark, 2010), there is an existing gap in literature regarding the integration of systematic reviews analyzing the methodological rigor of both MM research and federal funding within education. Additionally, integration of the systematic reviews should enable richer insight regarding the rigor of methods used.

### Research Questions:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The purpose of this study is to explore potential differentials in the robustness of quantitative and qualitative research methods between published MM educational research and IES funded research by answering the following questions:
1. What quantitative methods have been used in MM K – 12 educational research and in IES funded studies from 2014 – 2019?
2. What qualitative methods have been used in MM K – 12 educational research and in IES funded studies from 2014 – 2019?
3. What relationships between the quantitative and qualitative research methods used in K – 12 educational research and IES funded studies are found by integrating the systematic review?

### Research Design:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; A mixed methods systematic review (MM-SR) of the quantitative and qualitative methods used within MM educational research and IES funded research for K-12 education from 2014-2019 allowed for an integrated comparison of the rigor of quantitative and qualitative methods.

### Data Collection and Analysis:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The scope of this MM-SR focused on published education research between 2014 and 2019 that included the key phrase “mixed methods”. This criterion is based on the revision of the IES guidelines and research expectations in 2013. Articles under review were bound by the year 2019 for purposes of completing this search. The initial pool of articles was found by conducting a search of the phrase “mixed methods” within the Educational Resources Information Center (ERIC) ProQuest search engine. Other criteria for inclusion required students in grades K - 12, the research containing some type of student outcome measures and research had to be conducted within the U.S.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The systematic review of IES funded studies included the same criteria above as the published MM articles with one key difference being that the IES funded studies from 2014 – 2019 did not need to include “mixed methods”. The difference in criteria is due to the question being asked, “Is there a difference in methodological rigor between published MM educational research and IES funded studies?” Guidelines of The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) (Moher et al., 2009) were implemented, see Appendix A.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Coding of relevant articles and IES studies focused on the methodology and study designs rather than specific outcomes. Using MaxQDA software (VERBI Software, 2019), articles and IES studies that passed the screening stage were analyzed by the two authors. Authors independently coded half of the articles and the IES proposals. Coding discrepancies were resolved to arrive at 100% agreement. The code list was divided into five components: research method, IES-related purpose, quantitative method, qualitative method, and MM integration. The codes for the quantitative and qualitative methods were organized using an a priori coding scheme (Onwuegbuzie, 2016) which places method complexity along continuums. The coding enabled a concomitant synthesis of study methodology across the sample. The integrative nature of this investigation was necessary to identify the intermeshed relationships of separate analytic strands (Boeije, 2013) and complementary data collection and analyses (Pluye, 2014) for understanding the rigor of these education MM studies and funded research.

### Preliminary Findings:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Initial findings illustrate disparities between MM educational research funded by IES and those that were not in regards to reporting qualitative analysis methods. Among the journal articles in the sample of studies, 91.41% (N = 234 articles) reported a process of qualitative coding or analysis whereas the research funded by IES only 13.22% (N = 39 documents) disclosed a type of qualitative analysis. A statistically significant difference exists between MM educational journal articles and IES funded studies in terms of reporting a form of qualitative data analysis ($\chi^{2}$(1)= 348.68,p < .05) where journal articles informed the reader which qualitative method they will use more frequently. This elicits the degree in which IES mixed methodology is lagging with respect to effectively communicating a qualitative research strand, which is key when justifying a MM research design.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; All proposals displayed by IES offer insight into the quantitative research methods. This divide between the description of quantitative and qualitative approaches indicates a lacking rigor in MM IES research. While it has been a goal for IES to better guide researchers towards more sufficient MM quality, it is apparent that the research they support concentrates its efforts and resources into quantitative evidence. Because of this, the austerity of qualitative data analysis methods trails in expectation. These preliminary findings will advance into future comparisons of complexity levels through use of Onwuegbuzie’s (2016) paradigm to further identify gaps between MM educational research offered by journal articles and IES.
